# 2022MLBSeasonPredictor
A data science project that predicts the results of the remaining games of the 2022 MLB schedule using real statistics from games already played.

## Navigating This Project
The easiest way to check out my season predictor is through the Jupyter notebook (.ipynb file). It contains all of the code used in my predictor as well as my comments 
to explain what I am doing and why.

If you have Python (and a few necessary libraries) installed on your computer, you can download the predictor.py Python script and easily run the predictor yourself to 
generate new predictions. This project does have elements of randomness, so each time the Python script is run, new predictions are made. You can view the results of 
<i>every</i> game played throughout the season in the "schedules" folder or take a quicker look at the season-end division standings in the FinalStandings.csv file.

If you're uninterested in looking at code and just want to see what kind of predictions this project makes, I recommend you look through either the "schedules" folder, 
which has the files that are generated by running the Python script, or the "schedulesFinal" folder, which contains schedule predictions but also a comparison of those 
against the actual results.
The accuracy of the predictions of indiviudal games is a bit underwhelming, but the higher accuracy of the model can be seen in the FinalStandings file which contains 
each team's final win/loss record according to both predicted and actual results. Here it is more apparent that the predictions made are much more accurate, as one 
analysis of predictions in this repository shows about a 90% accuracy in predicting a team's final record.

Finally, the "Bonus Web Scraping" folder is largely unrelated to the rest of my project. It contains a separate Python file that scrapes data from FanGraphs.com, a
site that publishes their own MLB predictions using a more advanced model. I would've liked to compare the results of my predictor to theirs, but time didn't allow. 
I've left this folder in the repository in case anyone is interested anyways.

## Accuracy of the Predictions
As mentioned briefly above, there are two insights into predicting baseball game results that I believe can be taken away from this project. The first is that any 
given individual game of baseball is extremely difficult to predict. For each team's predictions in this project, the average percentage of games predicted correctly 
hovered around only 50-55%, not much better than a coin toss. I believe this is because my head-to-head based model doesn't make use of enough data unique to 
individual games, but also because baseball is very unique in this aspect that even the worst team can beat the best team relatively frequently, or at least more 
frequently than in other sports.

The other takeaway is that season-wide predictions, such as for a team's overall win/loss record, can be predicted more easily, as shown through the predictions and 
analysis seen in the FinalStandings file. On average, a team's win loss record was within 5-10 games of the actual observed result in the 2022 MLB season, and 
calculating a quick percent error value shows that predictions can be above 90% accurate when evaluating our model against season-wide results instead of indivdual 
games.

If you're reading this, thanks for checking out my project!
